MP3-Tag-Editor
==============

Edits MP3 ID3v2.3 tags for Artist, Album and Song Title. Allows the user to add/replace album art in .jpg, .gif, .png, .bmp formats.

Uses tkinter for the GUI and mutagenx for the mp3 data manipulation.

This program is free and meant for coding - specifically Python 3.x and GUI - practice. It comes without a warranty of any kind including the guarantee of performing to any expectations at all. Hopefully by viewing and tinkering this code some of your own problems revolving around your applications will be solved. I know I ran into loads of them myself.

"If You Want Something Done Right" is a simple application that doesn't use fancy search algorithms to find missing tags for your music. I've run into many programs that dredge up artist names, album names and album art that is totally wrong all the time. It becomes a chore to go through your collection and weed out mistakes.

The reasoning behind IYWSDR is this - you're gonna end up picking through your files anyways, any not make a program that allows you to go through your music and edit the obvious or important. Right now IYWSDR covers Song Title, Artist, Album and Album Art. The Filename Generator is a quick tool that allows for a given .mp3 to be renamed as X-Y-Z.mp3 where the variables are any combination of different or duplicate tags. ie: you could have an .mp3 renamed in the format of "Song Title - Artist.mp3".

IYWSDR was made as a programming exercise for myself. I'm looking in the really immediate future to make it an .exe but for now its a Python 3.x script (3.4.0 to be precise). Of course, when editing your music collections, make sure you have a backup of it SOMEWHERE, especially before you use any editing software on it.

The basic operating procedure surrounding "If You Want Something Done Right" is as follows:

1. Click the yellow folder button or go to File > Choose Directory and choose the root directory where your .mp3s are stored. IYWSDR was intended for people like me that throw all their .mp3 files in a single huge folder. If you have subdirectories and folders for genres or artists or albums, that'll be fine as well - as long as you know that IYWSDR works per song per directory/folder. You can choose a specific folder within a directory within the dialog that pops up, or simply select a directory and double click the folder in the directory list.
2. Once a directory containing .mp3s has been selected, the Directory Display will automatically populate with the songs and show the filename of the .mp3 in the first column, with Artist, Song Title and Album next if the tags have been filled.
3. Select an .mp3 (row within the Directory Display) to get started. Typically the first in the case of a number of songs that have never been nitpicked for correct tag data. The Tag Editor will automatically become available to you and will display the Title, Artist and Album data if they exist, or simply have blank spaces you can fill. In addition, if any album art exists, it will be shown in the Album Art Slot, or AAS.
4. Add/Edit album art: Click the '+' button on the bottom left of the AAS and use the file dialog to select an image. Changes will be reflected in the AAS when finished.
5. Tag Editor: The Tag Editor displays Title, Artist and Album tag data if they exist. To change or add tags, simply type the desired data beside the entry. For the purposes of safety, '#\/:*?"<>|' are considered problem characters that will be omitted if you use the Filename Generator on tags containing these characters. The Tag Editor is designed to be navigated by pressing <Return>. Clicking on a .mp3 in the Directory Display automatically gives keyboard focus to the first entry (Title) in the Tag Editor. Theoretically, after clicking on the topmost song in the Directory display, a user can simply type in tag data and hit <Return> to go to the next entry for the song (Artist) and so on. Hitting <Return> when inside the Album entry will give the focus of IYWSDR to the next .mp3 in the Directory Display.
6. Suggestions: With Suggest On ticked, once the user enters data for a tag of any song, IYWSDR will automatically search the rest of the working directory for .mp3s that have the same data in their filenames but not in the respective tag you entered. For example, if I have 10 Kings of Leon (Artist) songs in a directory and all 10 songs have no tags, by typing 'Kings of Leon' in the Artist tag and hitting <Return> IYWSDR will suggest that 'Kings of Leon' be the Artist tags for the other 9 songs in the directory. To show the list of generated suggestions, click 'Suggestions(#)' with # being the number of suggested changes. This will open a window with the list of suggestions. You can click Apply All to apply all changes, or individually select the changes to apply. IYWSDR will refresh the directory and reset focus back  to the .mp3 you were working with. NOTE: The Suggestion functionality has always been the most experimental of IYWSDR, use at your own risk - moreso than the risk you take when using IYWSDR in the first place.
7. Filename Generator: The filenames IYWSDR writes can be divided into up to three parts. These parts can be any of the three tag types IYWSDR works with. Each row corresponds to a part of a filename. There is also a button per row that can specify if you want that part at all (blank). Examples of filenames can include "Artist - Title - Album.mp3", "Artist - Title.mp3", or even "Title - Title - Title.mp3". The Filename Generator will not allow you to pick an empty filename, nor will it allow any of the aforementioned problem characters the Tag Editor warned you about. The Filename Generator will also show a preview of the layout you've generated. Press Apply to rename the .mp3.
